---
layout: post
title: "pip"
description: ""
category: python
tags: [python, pip, virtualenv, virtualenvwarpper]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

## Mac OS X
---

`sudo easy_install pip`

<http://stackoverflow.com/questions/17271319/installing-pip-on-mac-os-x>

## pip

<https://pypi.python.org/pypi/pip/>

<https://pip.pypa.io/en/latest/installing.html>

## Installation
---

### Python & OS Support

pip works with CPython versions 2.6, 2.7, 3.2, 3.3, 3.4 and also pypy.

pip works on Unix/Linux, OS X, and Windows.

> **Note**

> Python 2.5 was supported through v1.3.1, and Python 2.4 was supported through v1.1.

pip included with Python
Python 2.7.9 and later (on the python2 series), and Python 3.4 and later include pip by default [^1], so you may have pip already.

### Install pip

To install pip, securely download get-pip.py. [^2]

Then run the following (which may require administrator access):

`python get-pip.py`

If setuptools (or distribute) is not already installed, get-pip.py will install setuptools for you. [^3]

To upgrade an existing setuptools (or distribute), run pip install -U setuptools. [^4]

Additionally, get-pip.py supports using the pip install options and the general options. Below are some examples:

Install from local copies of pip and setuptools:

`python get-pip.py --no-index --find-links=/local/copies`

Install to the user site [^5]:

`python get-pip.py --user`

Install behind a proxy:

`python get-pip.py --proxy="[user:passwd@]proxy.server:port"`

Upgrade pip
On Linux or OS X:

`pip install -U pip`
On Windows [^6]:

`python -m pip install -U pip`

Using OS Package Managers
On Linux, pip will generally be available for the system install of python using the system package manager, although often the latest version will be unavailable.

On Debian and Ubuntu:

`sudo apt-get install python-pip`

On Fedora:

`sudo yum install python-pip`

---

[^1]:	<https://docs.python.org/3/installing/>

[^2]:	"Secure" in this context means using a modern browser or a tool like curl that verifies SSL certificates when downloading from https URLs.

[^3]:	Beginning with pip v1.5.1, get-pip.py stopped requiring setuptools to be installed first.

[^4]:	Although using pip install --upgrade setuptools to upgrade from distribute to setuptools works in isolation, it’s possible to get "ImportError: No module named setuptools" when using pip<1.4 to upgrade a package that depends on setuptools or distribute. See here for details.

[^5]:	The pip developers are considering making --user the default for all installs, including get-pip.py installs of pip, but at this time, --user installs for pip itself, should not be considered to be fully tested or endorsed. For discussion, see Issue 1668.

[^6]:	<https://github.com/pypa/pip/issues/1299>
