---
layout: post
title: "haskell ghci"
description: ""
category: haskell
tags: [haskell]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

First, let’s start GHC’s interactive mode and call some functions, so we can get a very basic feel for Haskell. Open a terminal and type ghci. You will be greeted with something like this:

{% highlight haskell %}
GHCi, version 6.12.3: http://www.haskell.org/ghc/  :? for help
Loading package ghc-prim ... linking ... done.
Loading package integer-gmp ... linking ... done.
Loading package base ... linking ... done.
Loading package ffi-1.0 ... linking ... done.
{% endhighlight %}

> NOTE GHCi’s default prompt is Prelude>, but we’ll be using ghci> as our prompt for the ex- amples in this book. To make your prompt match the book’s, enter **:set prompt "ghci> "** into GHCi. If you don’t want to do this every time you run GHCi, create a file called .ghci in your home folder and set its contents to **:set prompt "ghci> "**.

Congratulations, you’re in GHCi! Now let’s try some simple arithmetic:

{% highlight haskell %}
ghci> 2 + 15
17
ghci> 49 * 100
4900
ghci> 1892 - 1472
420
ghci> 5 / 2
2.5

ghci> (50 * 100) - 4999
1
ghci> 50 * 100 - 4999
1
ghci> 50 * (100 - 4999)
-244950

ghci> True && False
False
ghci> True && True
True
ghci> False || True
True
ghci> not False
True
ghci> not (True && True)
False

ghci> 5 == 5
True
ghci> 1 == 0
False
ghci> 5 /= 5
False
ghci> 5 /= 4
True
ghci> "hello" == "hello"
True

{% endhighlight %}

### Calling Functions

You may not have realized it, but we’ve actually been using functions this whole time. For in- stance, * is a function that takes two numbers and multiplies them. As you’ve seen, we apply (or call) it by sandwiching it between the two numbers we want to multiply. This is called an infix function.

  Most functions, however, are *prefix* func- tions. When calling prefix functions in Haskell, the function name comes first, then a space, then its parameters (also separated by spaces). As an example, we’ll try call- ing one of the most boring functions in Haskell, succ:￼￼￼￼

{% highlight haskell %}
ghci> succ 8
9
{% endhighlight %}

The succ function takes one parameter that can be anything that has a well-defined successor, and returns that value. The successor of an integer value is just the next higher number.

Now let’s call two prefix functions that take multiple parameters, min and max:

{% highlight haskell %}
ghci> min 9 10
9
ghci> min 3.4 3.2
3.2
ghci> max 100 101
101
{% endhighlight %}

